# KINEMETRY-based-modelling

The program uses KINEMETRY package to model different dynamical parameters of galaxies. 


## Introduction

KINEMETRY Package was written in IDL by Davor Krajnović. It is primarily a program to carry out "analysis of 2D maps of (kinematic) moments of the line-of-sight-velocity distribution (LOSVD)," and is described in details [here](http://davor.krajnovic.org/idl/#kinemetry).

For the purposes of my research, I ultilized it in order to fit rotation curves and model the velocity fields, which will be displayed using the Python codes that I wrote.

This document is intended for people who want to use my codes to get the properly displayed graphs or beginners who want to develop on this project. 

**NOTE:** At this point I don't know how to use Shell to develop a User Interface (UI). Thus, the following instructions will guide you through each manual step to produce the figures without using a UI. 

## Instructions for absolute beginners
###### I Assumed that the folders in this resporitory has already been downloaded to your computer, and that you're working on MacOS.
1) Open IDL (since IDL might have multiple versions on the computers, the easiest way to directly open the newest version is to type "idlde" to XQuartz or Terminal)

2) Change the directory under "Current Diectory" (Bottom Right Corner) to wherever you saved the downloaded folder.

3) Now you're ready to call some functions in the IDL Console!
    - Note: If you modify something you have to compile everything again before calling it in the console. 
    
4) Call the "galaxy_model_kine" in the console, note that it takes one parameter, which is the name of the data cube. Thus, if the name of the data cube is "pg1411.xdr", you will call it with the following command: galaxy_model_kine, "pg1411.xdr" 
    - Note: With this call, you should already have obtained the rotation curve.
    - During the run, the function also saves the velocity model generated by KINEMETRY, the original velocity map, the residual between them and the center's coordinates in a fits file (velModels.fits). This file will be used later on to generate the plots in Python. 

5) 
